README.md, before:

[![Gitpod Ready-to-Code](https://img.shields.io/badge/Gitpod-Ready--to--Code-blue?logo=gitpod)](https://gitpod.io/#https://github.com/conorshortt123/facial-recognition-project) 


# facial-recognition-project
Professional Practice in IT project repository --- Third Yr Sm 2.</br>

## Authors

* **Blaine Burke** - [GitHub](https://github.com/BurkeBlaine1999)
* **Conor Shortt** - [GitHub](https://github.com/conorshortt123)
* **Mark Reilly** - [GitHub](https://github.com/MarkReillyGMIT)

## Getting Started

* Download the latest version of [python]((https://www.python.org/downloads/))
* Run code on a Script/Text editor

### Prerequisites

* [Project dependencies](https://github.com/conorshortt123/facial-recognition-project/blob/master/requirements.txt) - run 'pip install -r requirements.txt' in command prompt in the file directory <br>
* Latest Verison of [python](https://www.python.org/downloads/)

## Running the Program

* Navigate into the 'project' directory 

* Open Command Prompt

* Enter 'python run.py'

* Go to '127.0.0.1/5000' on your web browser

## Built With

* [Python](https://www.python.org/) - Language Used
* [Flask](https://flask.palletsprojects.com/en/1.1.x/) - Framework Used

## Versioning

Version 1.0

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](https://github.com/conorshortt123/facial-recognition-project/blob/master/LICENSE) file for details

## Acknowledgments

Commit message:

Added project overview , Acknowledgments & small changes

README.md, after:

[![Gitpod Ready-to-Code](https://img.shields.io/badge/Gitpod-Ready--to--Code-blue?logo=gitpod)](https://gitpod.io/#https://github.com/conorshortt123/facial-recognition-project) 


# Project Overview
Our Project is a database that stores user information. 
In order to access the database you must first register , filling out all required fields and upload an image of your face.
The app then checks to see if the username is taken. If it is not taken you can now login.

When logging our app uses two factor authentication. 
You are asked for your username and password and once entered you are requried to take a picture of your face using a webcam.
This will then compare the image using our facial recognition system to the image used to  register.
Once this verifies you are logged in and can procceed to search the database for registered users!

## Authors

* **Blaine Burke** - [GitHub](https://github.com/BurkeBlaine1999)
* **Conor Shortt** - [GitHub](https://github.com/conorshortt123)
* **Mark Reilly** - [GitHub](https://github.com/MarkReillyGMIT)

## Getting Started

* Download the latest version of [python]((https://www.python.org/downloads/))
* Run code on a Script/Text editor

### Prerequisites

* [Project dependencies](https://github.com/conorshortt123/facial-recognition-project/blob/master/requirements.txt) - run 'pip install -r requirements.txt' in command prompt in the file directory <br>
* Latest Verison of [python](https://www.python.org/downloads/)

## Running the Program

```
 Navigate into the 'project' directory 
```
```
 Open Command Prompt
```
```
 Enter 'python3 run.py' 
 ```
```
 Go to '127.0.0.1/5000' on your web browser
 ```

## Built With

* [Python](https://www.python.org/) - Language Used
* [Flask](https://flask.palletsprojects.com/en/1.1.x/) - Framework Used

## Versioning

Version 1.0

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](https://github.com/conorshortt123/facial-recognition-project/blob/master/LICENSE) file for details

## Acknowledgments
[John French](https://github.com/john-french) - Supervised our project

[Adam Geitgey](https://github.com/ageitgey) - for Providing us with a [facial recognition module](https://github.com/ageitgey/face_recognition)

[Stackoverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/) - Helped with fixing bugs and issues.
